Alt Text and Link Edits - Pt. 4 (iOS) (#3342)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/ios/push_notifications/troubleshooting.md

## Understanding the Braze/APNs workflow

The Apple Push Notification service (APNs) is Apple's infrastructure for push notifications sending to iOS and OS X applications. Here is the simplified structure of how push notifications are enabled for your users' devices and how Braze can send push notifications to them:

1. You configure the push certificate and provisioning profile
2. Devices register for APNs and provide Braze with push tokens
3. You launch a Braze push campaign
4. Braze removes invalid tokens

#### Step 1: Configuring the push certificate and provisioning profile

In developing your app, you'll need to create an SSL certificate to enable push notifications. This certificate will be included in the provisioning profile your app is built with and will also need to be uploaded to the Braze dashboard. The certificate allows Braze to tell APNs that we are allowed to send push notifications on your behalf.

> There are two types of [provisioning profiles][2] and certificates - development and distribution. We recommend just using distribution profiles and certificates to avoid any confusion. If you choose to use different profiles and certificates for development and distribution, ensure that the certificate uploaded to the dashboard matches the provisioning profile you are currently using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of [provisioning profiles][2] and certificates: development and distribution. We recommend just using distribution profiles and certificates to avoid any confusion. If you choose to use different profiles and certificates for development and distribution, ensure that the certificate uploaded to the dashboard matches the provisioning profile you are currently using.
```

{% alert warning %}

> Do not change the push certificate environment (development versus production). Changing the push certificate to the wrong environment can lead to end-users having their push token accidentally removed, making them unreachable by push. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not change the push certificate environment (development versus production). Changing the push certificate to the wrong environment can lead to your users having their push token accidentally removed, making them unreachable by push. 
```

![Push error logs displaying the time the error occurred, the app name, the channel, error type, and error message.][26]

Common errors you might see here include user-specific notifications, such as ["Received Unregistered Sending to Push Token"][35].

In addition, Braze also provides a push changelog on the user profile under the **Engagement** tab. This changelog provides insight into push registration behavior such as token invalidation, push registration errors, tokens being moved to new users, etc.

![][1]{: style="max-width:50%;" }

## Push registration issues

#### No push registration prompt

If the application does not prompt you to register for push notifications, there is likely an issue with your push registration integration. Ensure you have followed our [documentation][21] and correctly integrated our push registration. You can also set breakpoints in your code to ensure the push registration code is running.

#### No "push registered" users showing in the dashboard

> - Check that your app is prompting you to allow push notifications. Typically this prompt will appear upon your first open of the app, but it can be programmed to appear elsewhere. If it is not appearing where it should be, then the problem is likely with the basic configuration of your app's push capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check that your app is prompting you to allow push notifications. Typically, this prompt will appear upon your first open of the app, but it can be programmed to appear elsewhere. If it does not appear where it should be, the problem is likely with the basic configuration of your app's push capabilities.
```

## Issues after push delivery

#### Push clicks not logged {#push-clicks-not-logged}

- If this is only occurring on iOS 10, make sure you have followed the push integration steps for [iOS 10][30].
- Braze does not handle push notifications received silently in the foreground (e.g., default foreground push behavior prior to the `UserNotifications` framework). This means that links will not be opened, and push clicks will not be logged. If your application has not yet integrated the `UserNotifications` framework, Braze will not handle push notifications when the application state is `UIApplicationStateActive`. You should ensure that your app does not delay calls to Braze's [push handling methods][30]; otherwise, the iOS SDK may treat push notifications as silent foreground push events and not handing them.

#### Web links from push clicks not opening

iOS 9+ requires links to be ATS compliant to be opened in web views. Ensure that your web links use HTTPS. Refer to our [ATS compliance][38] article for more information.

#### Deep links from push clicks not opening

> Most of the code that handles deep links also handles push opens. First, ensure that push opens are being logged; if not, [fix that issue][34] (as the fix often fixes link handling).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the code that handles deep links also handles push opens. First, ensure that push opens are being logged. If not, [fix that issue][34] (as the fix often fixes link handling).
```
